+++
title = "The Tale of a Blind Kitty"
date = "2007-07-01T12:48:00Z"
tags = []
+++

[![Franklin
Sees?](http://farm2.static.flickr.com/1155/679562962_a21e4e9f70_m.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/vfilby/679562962/
"Photo Sharing" )

Recently I was digging through the archives and found a number or pictures of
my first cat Franklin. Franklin was a quirky cat, blind and weighing about
four pounds he was the perfect portrait of a litter runt. But for all his
disabilities, he got away with many schemes and antics. When I say he was
blind, I don't mean completely blind. He had about enough sight to distinguish
a flash light shining on a dark wall. He would chase that spot of light like a
thirsty desert dweller would chase a mirage, crying sadly all the while.

He faked it well though, you would often see him staring out the window at
_things_. You would almost believe that he was keeping a keen eye open,
observing all the on-goings of all the humans and wildlife. His head would
swivel periodically tracking the nefarious deeds of the local squirrel cartel.
Just when he had you fooled he would go sit down 10 centimeters from a wall
and stare straight at it for hours watching the on-goings of mice, men, and
squirrel cartels. Really he survived quite well he knew the boundaries of the
apartment and had just enough sight to get around. Occasionally that just
enough sight was just enough to get him in trouble. One hot summer day I had
the balcony opened up with only a screen door separating Franky's safe zone
from the wild. Just enough light to make it look like there was an opening,
but not enough to realize there was a barrier. He came tearing through the
house carefully navigating the open spaces, he rounded the last corner and
leaped into the opening that wasn't really an opening. Turns out that cats
bounce.

[![Franklin's
Palace](http://farm2.static.flickr.com/1096/679793900_0d030803a1_m.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/vfilby/679793900/
"Photo Sharing" )

One day I dug up a catnip plant from the farm, potted it and took it home for
Franky. Sure it may be a gateway drug but medicinal use was clearly a solid
defense. I excitedly took Franky and placed him directly in front of the
plant... but he just walked on by. After many frustrated attempts I gave up.
Either his smell was handicapped too or he just didn't care or was too stupid
to notice it... For some reason I kept the plant and nurtured it letting it
grow and grow. Now I grew up in a place where marijuana is typically
cultivated better than any of the _other_ cash crops. So I might have clued in
to Frank's scheme. He wasn't olfactory-challenged, dumb, or innocent. He was
simply waiting for the right time to harvest. At the choice time, I came home
to find the catnip plant completely demolished and knocked over -- not a
single leaf left on the plant. I foolishly assumed that he had simply eaten
the fruits of his harvest. But Frank was a clever cat and tended his stash
better than most of the bong-toting hippies I know. Months later I saw Frank
go behind the TV and come out with that wild look in the eye that says "Get
off my couch and go get me 10 bags of Doritos." I looked behind the TV and
there was a neat pile of dried catnip leaves stashed in a recess in the TV
stand. I am sure there is a feline Rob Schneider somewhere mocking me "... and
you can put your nip in there."

[![Sleeping
Franklin](http://farm2.static.flickr.com/1243/679546802_034d1a785d_m.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/vfilby/679546802/
"Photo Sharing" )

He also had a keen understanding of home theater equipment. In the night, in
his true element, he would cause a ruckus. catching fake mice, bullying boxes
and general tom foolery. Now my DVD player had a value-add feature, you could
just shut the DVD player off by it would remember the play position of the
movie. And this DVD player was low to floor, just high enough that you could
slide a box up against it and hit the play button. Once night Frank brow beat
a box directly into the play button. The system came alive DVD player
whirring, the stereo came on with the DVD player, and Crash! The paused movie
was paused just before a loud explosion and the stereo was set somewhere
between lout and very loud. He was a lot more careful and diplomatic in his
future dealings with boxes. There are many other small stories, like the
lemonade incident of 2000 and his screen climbing escapades. He was quirky and
handicapped but always up for malevolent enterprise. Here's to Frank long gone
but not forgotten.

