+++
title = "The Status Quo Is Awesome, Because... Because."
date = "2011-03-18T18:10:31Z"
tags = ['rant']
+++

This is a response to the article [Paying With Your Phone Is Awesome,
Because... Because](http://www.slate.com/id/2288617/pagenum/all/)in Slate .

The main thrust of the article is that using [Near Field Communication
(NFC)](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Near_field_communication) to turn your
phone into a credit card is unreasonable because it is A) not more convenient
than credit cards, B) there is no infrastructure for it, and C) it can never
replace your entire wallet. Although the author does admit the need for "a
universal system" for payment he goes on to say we have the perfect technology
that is cheap, convenient and the infrastructure to match... little plastic
cards.

&lt;rant&gt;

And besides, all that new-fangled technology it's bad for the bones you
know... and every time you use NFC a baby sparrow dies... I read that on the
internet...

The argument just isn't just against NFC, it's pro-plastic cards. As if what
we have at this moment in time is as good as it is going to get and there is
no point in striving for a better solution. All this pro-card, anti-NFC
rhetoric is almost nauseating perhaps because major credit card vendors
*already include NFC on new credit cards*. That's right the credit cards that
I carry already have NFC in the form of PayPass or PayWave. And it is damn
convenient.

Wait a minute... if cards already include NFC that doesn't mean you have to
give up your beloved rectangles... you have choice. Oh sweet Spaghetti
Monster... the choice to choose which is best for you.

I have a smart phone, and it has supplanted a number of outdated technologies
that I used to drag around with me. With the prospect of having it do even
more I say bring it on.

As well, plastic cards are not problem free. You probably have 10-20 in your
wallet/purse right now is a pretty big one. ID cards, access cards, credit
cards, bank cards, health cards, etc. Why do I have to carry all of that crap
with me on a daily basis. I would be happy to solve the plethora of cards
problem with one single universal card that did all of the above, rather than
being issued a driver's license, the driver's license credentials are merely
added to your super secure government issued universal card. Think of the
benefits, the spines that would be saved from not sitting on three inch stacks
of cards. If you lose your universal card you only have to report and
replace one card.

Imagine having the option to roll it into the other thing that I carry with me
everyday... a smart phone.

I can't help but wonder if cashiers suffer repetitive injuries from say
"stripe towards the inside" hundreds of times per day. For the sake of Pete
just please put magnetic sensors on both sides.... or... adopt NFC and then it
won't matter.

&lt;/rant&gt;

I am not a strong proponent of NFC but I think it is wildly interesting and
opens up a whole new world of possibilities I and I think that we should
consider them. I can imagine technology making the world a better place, I
hope that you can too.

