+++
title = "Developer Blogs"
date = "2007-07-03T19:31:00Z"
tags = ['Education']
+++

I am a programmer and have been destined to be so ever since I was a wee lad,
barely knee-high to a grasshopper as my grandpappy may have put it. Yet all
the hacking, late nights copying code from C64 programming magazines, dabbling
and schooling doesn't really prepare you for the work force. When I started my
career I felt small, green and somewhat terrified. The work force exerts
certain demands and pressures that just can't be duplicated in school and that
isn't even considering the managerial/political side of office life.
Programmers that have been in the field for more than a decade have priceless
experience, the kind of experience that can't be bought. Luckily many older
and wiser developers are freely sharing advice gathered from years of
experience. These blogs are not concerned with the bits of programming, more
the aspects of being a programmer and managing programmers. The all have great
information on them so I suggest you fire up your RSS feed readers.

### Joel on Software

<http://www.joelonsoftware.com> This blog is probably the staple of my
programmer diet. I really started paying attention to this blog once I found
out Joel was my managers personal hero. Joel is pervasive, if you have
searched for anything software related on Google you have probably already
read a few articles. There is a ton of good information here for managers and
developers both, and many of Joel's rants/essays have been converted into book
form (or you could just browse through the archives). Beware though, I always
find that when I start to read articles on Joel's site they usually link to
other articles that I want to read... before you know it you are twenty links
deep and half your day is gone!

  * [Some of Joel's Favourite books](http://www.joelonsoftware.com/navLinks/fog0000000262.html)
  * [Guerrilla Guide to Interviewing (version 3.0)](http://www.joelonsoftware.com/articles/GuerrillaInterviewing3.html)
  * <http://www.joelonsoftware.com/articles/BionicOffice.html>

### Rands In Repose

<http://www.randsinrepose.com/> I found out about this site from
[Joel](http://www.joelonsoftware.com) when he reviewed by author titled
[Managing Humans: Biting and Humorous Tales of a Software Engineer
Manager](http://www.managinghumans.com). I began to explore around his
archives and I found some really good info in there, I am sure I will waste
much time in the near future catching up on many of his old posts.

  * [A Glimpse and a Hook](http://www.randsinrepose.com/archives/2007/02/25/a_glimpse_and_a_hook.html)
  * [N.A.D.D.](http://www.randsinrepose.com/archives/2003/07/10/nadd.html)

### The Codist

<http://www.thecodist.com> The Codist is less pervasive than the
aforementioned blogs and is less centered on development wisdom, but contains
some good stuff nonetheless.

  * [Programmer Job Ads: It's A Bird! It's A Plane! It's SuperCoderCoolMan!](http://thecodist.com/fiche/thecodist/article/programmer-job-ads-its-a-bird-its-a-plane-its-supercodercoolman)
  * [The Stupidity Of Interviews](http://thecodist.com/fiche/thecodist/article/the-stupidity-of-interviews)

