+++
title = "Annoyance Potential"
date = "2007-07-17T22:41:00Z"
tags = []
galleryprefix = ""
gallerythumbnailprefix = "t190_"
+++

Anyone like me who is in the process of completing a masters (or Ph.D.) thesis
fully realizes the _annoyance potential_ of friends and family. _Really
annoying_ doesn't even begin to describe the fury and depression inspired by
that infamous question. The one that gives graduate students sweaty palms and
elevated heart rate just at the mere mention of _"How is your thesis going?"_
(or its other form _"When is your thesis going to be finished?"_). In the
beginning it will be innocent and even well-received but as time goes on that
one little question will open the flood gates on doubt, uncertainty,
frustration and hopelessness causing the acute stress response known as [fight
of flight](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fight_or_flight). You may think that
it can't possibly be that bad and that I am exaggerating; but dear reader you
are wrong. This feeling is so ubiquitous, so pervasive that it has been
immortalized in [Ph.D. Comic's](http://vincentfilby.posthaven.com/http) strip
about [Thesis
Etiquette](http://www.phdcomics.com/comics/archive.php?comicid=47) (remember
that Ph.D. Comics is the quintessential guide to graduate student life,
feeding and care). So yes it really is that bad, and yes that is how we feel
when asked that question.

[![](http://www.phdcomics.com/comics/archive/phd0227.gif)](http://www.phdcomics.com/comics/archive.php?comicid=47)

If that isn't bad enough, people ask this question again and again and again.
At first I assumed it was ignorance, but even after politely explaining the
ramifications _they continue to ask!_ So I can really only conclude that they
have this misbegotten notion that harassing you constantly is somehow helping
you finish faster. Again with the wrongness! Think of someone standing over
your shoulder saying "Are you done yet? Are you done yet? Are you done yet?
Are you done yet?" Do you think that would make you finish your task faster?
No! It would only irritate the $%^&amp; out of you and make you want to throw
someone off a bridge. So....

### Stop asking the damn question!

Seriously, you are reading this blog so you are probably smart, funny and sexy
so if you know a graduate student please raise above your baser instincts and
distinguish yourself from the rest of the morons. Show compassion and
sympathy, if you want to support them in their academic efforts give them
[free food](http://www.phdcomics.com/comics/archive.php?comicid=39) and offer
to [proof-read](http://www.phdcomics.com/comics/archive.php?comicid=834) their
work. I am now _very much looking forward to_ all the comments and messages
asking - sincerely - how my thesis is going.

