+++
title = "Academically Challenged"
date = "2007-07-12T05:06:00Z"
tags = ['Rants']
+++

_**Warning: **If you are considering grad school you may not want to base your
decision solely on this post... tempting as it is._

[![Old Johnson Hall
Entrance](http://farm2.static.flickr.com/1202/791808809_3f9ca957a3_m.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/vfilby/791808809/
"Photo Sharing" )

After I graduated I did a foolish, foolish thing. I chose to _start_ a Masters
degree in Computer science. Note the emphasis on _start_. I can hear the
virtual masses mocking me; of course by masses I mean all five of you. But
wait! I have an excuse! I graduated just after the .com crash, seeing dismal
job prospects I decided to stick around for some higher education. I had other
delusions at the time: "a masters degree will help with my career!" Now I am
sure that two extra years would have bolstered my career as a programmer much
more than a masters. But really, who doesn't want to be the master of
something. _And_ have the paper to prove it! I started as a young graduate
full of enthusiasm, imagining the how great my research _could_ be. The doors
that it _could_ open and even potentially a career as a professor! Don't fret
friends, the delusion was temporary. Time wore on and my enthusiasm dwindled,
my straight and narrow path to glory begin to meander leaving the _potential
greatness_ scattered in my wake. Then I committed the ultimate academic
mistake - fatal to my academic career yet with a net positive effect - I
defected. I started to work in the industry.

[![Guelph
Arboretum](http://farm2.static.flickr.com/1264/792524672_f8640970fc_m.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/vfilby/792524672/
"Photo Sharing" )

Two years later I am realizing that my leave of absence is about to end and
that it is time to get my ass in gear and finish what I started. I am also
realizing that I haven't really even looked at my work in the past two years,
so getting back into the swing of things is painful. That coupled with the
seemingly magnetic repulsion that I have developed towards my thesis make it
exceptionally hard to work on. Here I am editing and reflecting on my academic
past. I have definitely learned a few lessons:

  

  1. [Ph.D. Comics](http://www.phdcomics.com) is the closest and most realistic portrayal of grad life. Any future grad student should read _every single comic strip_ to understand what they are in for. You can swear that you will be different than Slackenery, but better individuals have been wrong.
  2. The rate at which your research becomes obsolete is slightly faster than the rate at which you can research. This is even more pronounced for my own rate of research! 
  3. Free food only comes second to free money.
  4. Graduate student labs rarely have windows.
  5. Campus life - you know, everything but the researchy-working stuff you are _supposed_ to be doing - is absolutely awesome. I miss being on campus. Especially chillin' with a friend in the middle of Johnson Green eating frosties and listening to Aerosmith. The fact that we were illegally parked on campus in a place where there really isn't a parking spot only makes the memories sweeter.
  6. _(Added July 17, 2007)_ It is beyond annoying when [people continually harass you about your thesis](annoyance-potential).
  7. Lastly, try to keep all of your referenced papers in pdf form, indexed and searchable from your computer. Trying to find a bit of information from a single paper can be a bitch when you have to delve through a stack!

Time to get back to work, I really gotta get this monkey off my back.

[![Johnson
Green](http://farm2.static.flickr.com/1349/792640672_1917888e67.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/vfilby/792640672/
"Photo Sharing" )

